We are for change!!!

Who listens! To it !
Progeny of the surrounding are many in the ways we see them not.Can the brilliant be made to excel and expel knowledge.We have .... What do we have ?Nothing .But we all know the true path to the right path don't we know.Clearly we do.
Sad to say "Too much of everything is bad" but we disagree to agree."We all know the path"says who .
Learners  can be made intelligent.Walking the extra mile is complex in this modern age and era.
But we all must walk our way  through to bring breakthrough in these generation we see young but in times to come they yield into our current state we call old age. They say "the old give way for the new "  but are we  ready to allow the young lead with no knowledge.It is a whole responisibility as teacher,parent   of the currrent age  to walk the extra mile which is forbidden for our current school in our vicinity .
Walking the extra mile mean something which we may not like or may disagree with fine,parent will  speak with anger projecting their burden .Yes the change we want is difficult and heavy on shoulders of parent because walking the extra mile mean more learning and more learning more engagement with learning through morning classes or other way fit to ensure learner and future leaders we see young  today are fit for next day when we are no more strong to teach.

More learning can bring worthy learners with knowledge ,these can be  done when parent give green light to teachers to give extra classes for right when they get to Basic 7 to Basic 9. Extra classes mean parent will pay more in addition to school fees and textbook. They say when swimming  early in river the eye turn red later let's see the skill and knowledge acquired when the eye is red.This mean when the extra classes start right when learners are in Basic 7 these learners are stretched and hence they become excellent in academic and more topics will be covered giving more free time for teacher to revise more .If the extra classes begin on time from Basic 7 the learners will become brilliant and stars will shiny on the school we hope and adore. 
Who listens!To it. Clearly ,these objection or suggestion are not merely because we are money concentrated or we wish to amass wealth from parent or guardian but to channel the desires which will long and go back and forth and return non ending blessing as the the Law Karma says .They say and they say again that  what goes around comes around.
Is pain and tears that  young capable to reach far in every aspect worth reaching fail to do so because we  teacher think extra classes make parent bear more cost yes fine,but we say parent will bear more cost is bad then please listen to this ,if learner in our place  let say a brilliant one write external examination and perform bad who will be affected ,please slow down on this.The school will lose more learners and losing more learners mean losing more teachers and losing more teachers means what we dont want to say but let say it "the school we built from 90s will be shutdown ".
Is that what we want no! absolutely no.But what do we want ?
We want more learners to proceed with confidence but how can confidence be built without knowledge .Teachers and I need to say it again must start morning classes to help learners expand in their academics.When we do this there are two side of a coin parent will complain and if we proceed and not stop the school will  become better and better.This is an observation and purely suggestions from thought.Thank you!
	
Picking the momentum and gliding to mud,parent has to endure my painful and backward statement if they see it so,book are expensive and higher investment. Paying for high rated book for ward is hard for parent yet we wish our children excel beyond the cosmos  but can that be possible?We switched off light then expecting a light to shine at the end of the tunnel ?If we do so ,are we magician ?And do magician do it this way ?

Buying or securing books and other resources as far learners academics are concern is a challenge.With strategy and well clarified plan it can be possible even though other see it as impossible case.

Parents have to like destestable way of living  and save more or work beamly to acquire more to factor their ward academics. If, consider spending  unwisely and fails to look up at our children in providing investment to them for a start then prepare happily if all thing being equal then benefit and bad error will be harvested in multiple folds back to the investor being the parents.


Everything lies in strategy ,to buy book parent can ,one or two book a week.

We consider that era past had little technology previously but in this modern day there are billion of technology emerging in the world and many more to exalt themselves  drawing attention of serious learners unto itself.

Who devour us from the trend technology is taking us,if better the one we believe in are fooled then what about the learner we have no belief in... 
Parent unconcern for their child future allow not her children to  do homework,read book on continual basis but push and leave  them in the hands of technology like they say smart phone ,tablet and most world admiring phone brands.

These cycle proceed every now and then in African soil .Hence nothing has been done and the one  carefully made are taken away to space  leaving us in the waste .We do nothing ,mean we will see nothing. So as parent when   improvement is not there please how did you do things ,did you introduce learner  to read,focus on education or what else.

We ripe what is sow.Do whatever is right in your eye and see the future to whether it blurs or clearly unveil itself.

Technology is the next way I talked about.It does not mean learners cannot use phone to aid their learning .No .But they must use it accurately in such away it does not effect their learning for the worse.

Is a taboo and a shock for young one to be good at technologies ,should that be the case?
We catch a glimpse of the future with high intelligent technologies to emerge but here we are ,parent want their children not mingle with learning technology .Shocking instead of brand voicing and providing supporting or  aid to move mass youth toward technology they still consider [ the immorality on air line ] it a taboo.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vain talks they do ,DJ ,radio programme and their their CEO are money concentrated and want money like beast !Money Money ! Betting is what they are currently investing to draw the the penny that we have. Not reasoning carefully ,one bets with the intension to amass wealth in a blink just like  Millionaire in Scum.
Wonder to get better bet ,say is to invest in young to learn trader,master computer and emerging technology,engineering ,mathematics and scientific experiment and well thought research.
If per  assummtion a company or industry invest in poor states with brilliant and average and plus weak learners to shape their live for the better that will be the biggest investment.And how will such a company get benefit from what has been invested?The people we had invested will return and continue our or the work done to him.A tip of the investment is that these individual who are sponsored will have the means to help the company  which invested heavily on him and push the company into thrillion of what was invested.
Replaying what happens in Saturday is mocking in all colours! Tribalism ,hating them [ their tribalism ]and unfruitable argument from these power-minded mind who can only see four years and not plan for an average of 1000 year what they want their capable nation to be!The speak fake promises and uses mind to mastermind us into their fake promise !They may do it or not ,even though is their promises when power is in their hands.Power bring forgetfulness suppose we know?

But looking for a company to make the biggest investment by taking the needs of youth into heart.
CEO will not listen,everyone else Hello. The new wave is here ,let me make known to you non-listening CEO  who know better than most of us.
We adore other countries for their fast moving and developing nice countries we wish to visit and later  get card from them ,we admit we gather our generation to such place and never return to where we are in the current .But what we have seen is made possible because the billionaire in that state or region were not selfish but spread their hands to .. .
Beautiful thing appear in and will continually appear in countries where the rich involve not thing which not return with quake but rather do things meaning giving away to help the meek to reach height.

Let continue the wave ,releasing free books  must be the first green light for capable CEO to release in maximuity to communities.Then jump on creating well school for village and securing good teaching of the current trends like computer literacy or IT courses and other aspect worth mentioning.
CEO must procure or buy more computers,phone,tablet and laptop which can help learners to envisage the resource online and see to find the right resources to master.
When these resource are bought ,ensure learners or people become good at by all means.
Mastering and reading more may extend their reach. When these teachnnologie are given ,free wifi must given and then company must make their target to donate millions to these kinds and track their development cycle and see if their a positive  change ,upon noticing a bad change light must be ignite to ring them back .

If the CEO of institution in education field are not shame the must be to the peak !They do not know tomorrow lie in their hands not assimliating what it will be but only money ,money beast have they become .
IT works pass by them .They will not buy projectors ,laptop of modern era,teach IT courses while the brain is still fresh ,they follow nomadic traditional approach  .
Nomadic trandtional approach has been the motive of the CEO we see and hear.Nomadic ..Traditional ..Approach.What do you mean?
Let cause explosion to those who hears it .Nomadic :moving from one point to another as fast as possible and rising the next day we find ourselve in another location meaning CEO can still and [land in place and build] constantly they in motion and mimicking one another like a jealous pal. Traditional to us mean they believe they have the non-ending knowledge and want no criticism from babies less[ than] their age.Age is a number one will specify ... 
Approach :their way of doing things is well to them     but hell or bad to some and the CEO see it not but glide with energy of making impact in community but to say is illusion and not real.People cheer them !They think they reach skies.Some sky are after sky the chinese woman will hint that...

Clearly CEO heart are in turmoil !Compare your institution to institution outside and see they lag behind like shit!Local champion one African novelist will point out in Nigeria.
Clearly again? Yea within our vicinity the institution we hope are the best are ant in every aspect not because they are not pushing in contrast they are pushing their company to hell or abyss. 
They look for old fashion materials and procurement is issue in every stake.To buy they refuse, so employees move perform abysmal in rank and these company may not be heard and even the ones heard buy themselves rank which is only a thin air .
These air will definitely be replaced.

Employee work is no way wished by CEO.They adore their arsenal not  ,they hold them like rag and use them when they are required ,their insurance and pension is unthoughtful scene in the minds of CEOs. They rug or struggle in nomadic transit from house to work and back to the   house on working days,they days of pension are moving jet-like speed to catch and leave them in bizzare.But do CEOs even care ,money beast they have become!May be company mostly fail when chasing money and not passion to help community.They chase local or few money and they are happy.Looking at them funny they are .Unwise?
Instead reform your institution like Telegram,whatsapp and Google so that international student or client or customer will buy ticket to look for that gem which is not money concentrated but wish to serve.Masters serve ! Not university but  pre tertiary institution has no idea of polishing it schools  to withdraw international student .The focus on the tip of gari and beans mens food in its popularity . Hmmm look, rushing here ,..Funny they are .Ha ha ha....

Caring for the stakeholder has never been seen in this fragement of the world.The stake they see are those who invest money and not those who use their brain cells or body to keep the vehicle of disgust  into glory.
They one who ground stew should not enjoy full benefits of what was made.They only think about only school but all companies need this.Who will read these statement.Wonder .Wonders.
Even if the do will they apply ?

If yes ,then prepare you companies will be the best that the world cannot fathom or envelop but failing to do the right incur shutdown of these money beast company.

Employement for those finishing school and those who are street smart must be fathomable desire of CEO to expand scope of their companies.Fight in these way win the war before is too late.
Channel resource to make Sarah smile to get job .Why only Sarah ?Not only only Sarah but all youngsters who worth working but if these work are given to them it must attract huge salary  to assist them to meet their dreams.
If these employment are met will happiness not prevail  what is the use of these politician who only see 4 year as their way to wealth ,the arsenal of politician will be absolute,people busy going to work to claim billionaire and politician offering 1000 of money will see themselves as unwise for giving 1000 to an employee who has 1,000,000,000 in saving for generation to cater for themselves.

Calling on all foundation ,radio programmes employees ,men club,women club ,reading club, school groups ,TV channel owners ,church and industry to mount a job for these  youngster available in society to smile with non-ending joy.
For these there no need for the above mention people to use money but extend or link youngster to find jobs around.
    